README.md, before:

# org-nutrition

Small helpers to log meals/macros in an Org file, plus a simple catalog of foods/recipes.

## Installation

### Manual (`load-path`)

```elisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "~/repos/org-nutrition/")
(require 'org-nutrition)

;; Optional: default file
(setq org-nutrition-target-file (expand-file-name "nutrition.org" org-directory))
```

### `use-package`

```elisp
(use-package org-nutrition
  :load-path "~/repos/org-nutrition"
  :custom
  (org-nutrition-target-file (expand-file-name "nutrition.org" org-directory)))
```

## Commands

- `M-x org-nutrition-capture`
  - Prompts for a meal entry and appends it to the daily table inside `org-nutrition-target-file`.

- `M-x org-nutrition-food-capture`
- `M-x org-nutrition-recipe-capture`
  - Catalogs a food/recipe under `* Foods and recipes` in `org-nutrition-target-file`.
  - If the item already exists (case-insensitive exact heading match), it offers to use the saved macros to fill a meal entry (delegates to `org-nutrition-capture`).

If you enable the minor mode:

```elisp
(org-nutrition-mode 1)
;; Keybindings:
;; C-c n c -> org-nutrition-capture
;; C-c n i -> org-nutrition-insert-entry
```

## `nutrition.org` format

`org-nutrition` writes into a single Org file (default: `~/org/nutrition.org`, depending on `org-directory`).

### Foods and recipes catalog

A top-level heading is used to store your catalog:

```org
* Foods and recipes
** Chicken breast
:PROPERTIES:
:PORTION: 100g
:CALORIES: 165
:FATS: 3.6
:CARBS: 0
:PROTEIN: 31
:TYPE: food
:END:

** Pancakes
:PROPERTIES:
:PORTION: 1 serving
:CALORIES: 350
:FATS: 10
:CARBS: 50
:PROTEIN: 12
:TYPE: recipe
:END:
```

### Daily log

Meal entries are stored under a Year/Month/Day tree, with an Org table.
`org-nutrition-capture` creates the structure/table automatically when needed.

## Customization

- `org-nutrition-target-file`: where entries are written.
- `org-nutrition-foods-and-recipes-heading`: name of the catalog heading (default: `Foods and recipes`).
- `org-nutrition-default-portion`: default portion when cataloging (default: `100g`).

## License

GPL-3.0-or-later. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add BMR capture and enhance summaries
The code has been updated to include a new command `org-nutrition-bmr-capture`
that calculates and logs Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) data, along with an improved
summary system that dynamically tracks and aggregates macros at monthly and
annual levels. The README and code files reflect these new capabilities.

* README.md: Document new BMR capture command and summary tables.
* org-nutrition.el: Implement BMR capture, table handling, and API improvements.
* project.org: Mark task to calculate nutritional options as done.

README.md, after:

# org-nutrition

Small helpers to log meals/macros in an Org file, plus a simple catalog of foods/recipes.

## Installation

### Manual (`load-path`)

```elisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "~/repos/org-nutrition/")
(require 'org-nutrition)

;; Optional: default file
(setq org-nutrition-target-file (expand-file-name "nutrition.org" org-directory))
```

### `use-package`

```elisp
(use-package org-nutrition
  :load-path "~/repos/org-nutrition"
  :custom
  (org-nutrition-target-file (expand-file-name "nutrition.org" org-directory)))
```

## Commands

- `M-x org-nutrition-capture` (or `C-c n c`)
  - Prompts for a meal entry (fetches data from Open Food Facts API or manual input) and appends it to the daily table inside `org-nutrition-target-file`.
  - Automatically recalculates Daily Totals, Monthly Averages, and Annual Averages.

- `M-x org-nutrition-food-capture`
- `M-x org-nutrition-recipe-capture`
  - Catalogs a food/recipe under `* Foods and recipes` in `org-nutrition-target-file`.
  - The Interactive Recipe Builder will ask for ingredients one by one, scaling their macros perfectly based on the weight provided.
  - If the item already exists (case-insensitive exact heading match), it offers to use the saved macros to fill a meal entry.

- `M-x org-nutrition-bmr-capture` (or `C-c n b`)
  - Triggers an interactive prompt for Weight (kg), Height (cm), Age, Activity Level, and Goal (+/- 300kcal).
  - Computes the Harris-Benedict BMR, BMI, and your target calorie range.
  - Generates and appends a row to the `* Body Info` table.

If you enable the minor mode:

```elisp
(org-nutrition-mode 1)
;; Keybindings:
;; C-c n c -> org-nutrition-capture
;; C-c n i -> org-nutrition-insert-entry
;; C-c n b -> org-nutrition-bmr-capture
```

## `nutrition.org` format

`org-nutrition` writes into a single Org file (default: `~/org/nutrition.org`, depending on `org-directory`).

### Foods and recipes catalog

A top-level heading is used to store your catalog:

```org
* Foods and recipes
** Chicken breast
:PROPERTIES:
:PORTION: 100g
:CALORIES: 165
:FATS: 3.6
:CARBS: 0
:PROTEIN: 31
:TYPE: food
:END:

** Pancakes
:PROPERTIES:
:PORTION: 1 serving
:CALORIES: 350
:FATS: 10
:CARBS: 50
:PROTEIN: 12
:TYPE: recipe
:END:
```

### Daily log

Meal entries are stored under a Year/Month/Day tree, with an Org table.
`org-nutrition-capture` creates the structure/table automatically when needed.

#### Automated Summary Tables
On top of your daily log, `org-nutrition` dynamically tracks and aggregates your macros in real time at the Month and Year levels. 
Every time a new entry is added, an `#+NAME: monthly_summary_YYYY_MM` table is constructed under the current month containing all your daily totals and computing the average day. Simultaneously, an `#+NAME: annual_summary_YYYY` table computes the monthly averages directly under the year heading.

### Body Targets & BMR

Measurements and BMR goals are kept track of under the `* Body Info` heading using `org-nutrition-bmr-capture`:

```org
* Body Info
| Date       | Weight(kg) | Height(cm) | Age | BMI  | Activity | Goal             | BMR   | Target Cals |
|------------+------------+------------+-----+------+----------+------------------+-------+-------------|
| 2026-02-26 | 72.0       | 175.0      | 30  | 23.5 | 1.55     | Gain (+300 kcal) | 2604  | 2904        |
```

## Customization

- `org-nutrition-target-file`: where entries are written.
- `org-nutrition-foods-and-recipes-heading`: name of the catalog heading (default: `Foods and recipes`).
- `org-nutrition-default-portion`: default portion when cataloging (default: `100g`).

## License

GPL-3.0-or-later. See [LICENSE](./LICENSE).
